---
layout: post
title: Pirate Roguelike Dev Log \#2
---

## Big Changes

Hello!

I have recently switched from making this game in terminal with Haskell to using python and the tdl library. I've made this decision for a number of reasons.
* With Haskell the user would have to make sure the terminal window was the correct size, otherwise the game could not launch.
* While the main gameloop and data structures in Haskell allowed me to add features into the game semi-effortlessly, without use of the lens library (which I do not have the time to learn/implement right now) the code became incredibly unwieldy.
* Because it was in the terminal instead of a window (like tdl) the game was slow, and text flickered intermittently throughout the game.

These were the 3 main reasons for me making the switch to tdl. I chose python because it was the only tdl implementation I could get to install correctly on Windows 7, as that is my main development OS and I don't want to shut out windows users in the long run. I will still have some Haskell code included in this project, the conlang the pirates of this world will speak will be parsed and translated using a Haskell module written by me.

## The Conlang "Arrx Arrmor" or "Pirate Speak"

For the conlang the pirates will speak I have set a few rules for how words will be made:
* Letters are written using the following 15 latin characters: abdfghjmortuwxz
* Any a's in words generated by the random word python script I wrote must be followed by two r's (am -> arrm)
* jh is pronounced like a 's' in english

The player will start the game knowing a bit of this language dependent on the linguistics skill level they chose before the start of the game. As the player plays the game they can find bits of paper and books which will teach them words. After a while they will be able to use Pirate Ports and speak to pirates in taverns or even take quests from Pirates.

## Features Implemented So Far

* Cannon firing with aiming (no damage done yet)
* World map to explore with randomly generated islands, split up into screens.
* Ability to attack enemies

## Planned Features

* Merchants following trade routes
* Boarding other ships
* Learning the pirate language
* Enter towns on islands, go to taverns and collect quests/buy supplies and new ships from ports
* Recruit crew members
* Quest system
* Dialogue system
* A lot more

You can find the next post [here](https://henningtonko.github.io/Pirate-Roguelike-3/)